---
datePublished: '2016-10-01T13:27:44.662Z'
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-02-about.md
inFeed: false
authors: []
hasPage: true
keywords: []
author: []
via: {}
dateModified: '2016-10-01T13:27:44.199Z'
title: About
publisher: {}
description: >-
  Holistic health and wellness has been a lifelong endeavor that has led Jasen
  on a spiritual journey in the pursuit of physical, emotional, mental, and
  spiritual harmony. Jasen has trained in the traditions of massage therapy,
  yoga, Buddhism, Christianity, Lakota Native Americans, and shamanism. His
  eclectic studies have culminated in a humanistic realization that transforming
  consciousness is the ultimate factor to realizing a happy heart and peaceful
  mind.
inLanguage: null
starred: false
url: about/index.html
_type: Blurb

---
# About

Holistic health and wellness has been a lifelong endeavor that has led Jasen on a spiritual journey in the pursuit of physical, emotional, mental, and spiritual harmony. Jasen has trained in the traditions of massage therapy, yoga, Buddhism, Christianity, Lakota Native Americans, and shamanism. His eclectic studies have culminated in a humanistic realization that transforming consciousness is the ultimate factor to realizing a happy heart and peaceful mind.

Jasen enjoys working with the mind-body relationship to transform consciousness and promote wellness. Through the practice of myomassology (massage therapy), Jasen helps individuals release the congested energy and harbored emotions trapped in the body. This release of heaviness, called psychosomatic release, has many benefits, including freeing of energy, increasing vitality, mental clarity, peacefulness, and a myriad of benefits to the physical body.

Through teaching the practices of yoga, Jasen empowers individuals with the skills of working with the body, breath, and meditation to achieve greater wellness and harmony. The human body is the one thing we all have in common, serving as a universal path to a spiritual practice, and a playground of opportunity for healing and transformation. Developing a yogic practice for yourself provides the skills and freedom to cultivate your own well-being, peacefulness, and happiness.

## Myomassology Practice

Jasen has been practicing body and energy healing since 2010, when he graduated from Irene's Myomassology Institute in Southfield, Michigan (Irenes.edu). The training Jasen received at Irene's has a core foundation in Swedish massage, and included elective study in Myofascial Release, Lymphatic Drainage, Trigger Points, Thai Massage, Reike, Chakra Balancing, and Energy Healing. During 2011-2012, he returned to Irene's to participate in the Apprentice Instructor program. Jasen has experience working in massage clinics, an outdoor spa, senior centers, out-calls to private homes and hotels, and a Buddhist monastery.

## Yoga Practice

* 2014--current, studying Alignment Yoga with Scott Anderson (AlignmentYoga.com).
* 2012, studied Yin Yoga with Barbara at Serendipity Yoga.
* 2010--2011, studied Vinyāsa Yoga with Gregg Newsome (DetroitEvolution.com).
* 2009, began a personal practice

## Spiritual Practice

* 2016--current, studying with Tibetan Buddhist master Yonget Mingyur Rinpoche (Tergar.org).
* 2013--2015, studied meditation and principles of yogic healing in the Tibetan, Zen, and Theravada traditions of Buddhism.
* 2009--2012, studied with Jorge Arvenivar in the Lakota (Native American) tradition of sweat lodges, vision quests, and sun dance.
* 2010--2011, studied Post-Tribal Shamanism with Kenn Day (ShamansTouch.com).
* 2012--2013, studied shamanic practices with Leslie Blackburn (OneSpaceConnected.com).
* For many years, an exploration of Christianity, Taoism, Sacred Geometry, New Age Spirituality, and Meditation.

## Origins

Jasen was born and raised in metro-Detroit. From 2009-2011, Jasen moved into the blight and inner city of Detroit to participate in grassroots community activism and the urban agriculture movement. This intimate experience of post-capitalism apocalypse has greatly shaped Jasen's perspective about how it is necessary for humanity to evolve in consciousness to continue living on Earth. 

Capitalism is very much driven by individual desire and determination for success and achievement. In those pursuits, there is a delicate balance between the Individual and the Community. When the concept of the individual becomes excessive, selfishness, greed, and lust result. Conversely, an individual may manifest imbalance by becoming too self-less in service to the community. Somewhere in these two extremes is the balance to greater harmony.

Happy, healthy, and compassionate individuals create harmonious and peaceful communities---and vice versa. We all have two things in common: we are humans, and we share a home called Earth. May we all live in love, peace, joy, truth, wisdom and unity!